This is a BlackJack mobile app made using .NET MAUI - it is compatible with Android and iOS. The character artwork was made by me. Note: the files in the platforms folder were created automatically with only minor edits by myself. This was submitted as my final project for the Harvard CS50 Introduction to Computer Science course.

There are 4 pages in this app: menu screen, game screen, about page and the instructions page. This app was created in Visual Studio 2022 using the .NET MAUI framework. Each page's layout and appearance is defined using xaml files. Each page also has a "behind code" file which is written in C# which defines all the functions in each page. Blackjack is a card game where you aim to have a hand of cards whose value sums to 21. The winner is the player who has a hand of cards with a value closest to 21, but not greater than 21. A hand greater than 21 results in the player being "bust" (out). If the dealer equals the player with the best hand or if all players are bust, the dealer wins. Each turn, a player can "stick" (no more cards) or "twist" (new card dealt). In this app, there is a virtual dealer and 2 virtual players - Player 1 and Player 2.

Menu screen:
Consists of MainPage.xaml and MainPage.xaml.cs
The menu screen is the page which loads when the app is run. It allows the player to navigate to all the other pages in the app and the player can press quit to close the app. 

Game page:
Consists of Blackjack.xaml and Blackjack.xaml.cs
This is the page where the player plays Blackjack. Firstly, the virtual dealer will "deal" cards to the players. Then Player 1 takes it turn - it is programmed so if the hand score is less than 13, the NPC will "twist". Then it is the user's turn - the buttons at the bottom right of the screen allows the player to "stick" or "twist". There is also a checkbox available at the top right of the screen during the entire game where the user's score can be displayed on screen to assist the user. When the user presses stick or is "bust" the game moves on to Player 2's turn. This NPC works the same as Player 1 except it will "twist" while it's score is below 17. Finally, it is then the dealer's turn (unless all players are bust, then the dealer automatically wins). The dealer continues to twist until it has the best score or is bust. At the end the winner is announced, then the user gets the option to play again or quit. Throughout the entire game, the user has the option to quit or restart. Restart will reset all of the variables in the game so the deck is reset and reshuffled, and new hands are dealt. Quit will navigate the user to the main menu screen. The deck is class which, when an instance of the deck is created, will be a list containing the name of all the cards in a deck with their associated value. This deck can then be "shuffled", where the list is changed into a random order. When cards are "dealt", the card at the first position in the list is assigned to the hand of the player and is then removed from the list. Aces can have a value of 1 or 11 depending on what will help the player have the best score. In the code, when calculating a player's score, the ace by default has a value of 11 however if the player has a score greater than 21, the ace's value will be changed to 1 and the score recalculated to see if this allows the player to remain in the game.
At certain points during the game, the artwork shown in the background will change to help the user understand what is happening. The character who is performing an action at that time will transition onto the screen, and the previous character transitions off of the screen. I have set this up so that Player 1 transitions to and from the left, and Player 2 to and from the right. The dealer will transition based on where the next player comes from, so it is as the players have specified positions at a table. There are also images with all the characters together when it is none of their turns. Card images are used for the user’s hand.

About page:
Consists of About.xaml and About.xaml.cs
This is a simple page with only text and a background giving a brief introduction to myself and a link to my github profile. Pressing this link opens a browser and sends the user to my github profile.

Instructions page:
Consists of Instructions.xaml and Instructions.xaml.cs
This page shows a text box with instructions on how to play the game. There is a "next" and "back" button displayed underneath the text box to allow the user to change the text in the textbox, showing the next part of the instructions. The sections of instructions are stored in a list which is navigated through using the buttons. If the user is at the beginning of the list, the back button is hidden. If the player is at the end of the list, the next button is hidden.

